Enhanced project workflow and GitOps deployment strategy (#500)
mia-platform/documentation: docs/development_suite/set-up-infrastructure/enhanced-project-workflow.md

---

:::caution
This is a **BETA** feature and, as such, is currently under active development. Pay attention using it.
:::

The **Enhanced Project Workflow** feature aims to improve the developer experience when working with the Console, as well as pave the way for the adoption of previously unavailable opportunities.

## Changes to the Console workflow

The following sections will highlight the changes made to the established Console workflow, regarding in particular the new management of the project logical state, and the new deployment workflow.

### New configuration management strategy

The most relevant change in the Console’s behavior is that the project’s logical state will not be saved on a Git provider anymore. This will result in significant **performance improvement** during the main Console workflows, since contacting the Git provider implied a considerable overhead that will now be reduced.

This change also means that the Console will not rely on the typical Git-based instruments anymore and will instead adopt a **new configuration management system**, while still maintaining consistency with the Console’s established workflows.

> With the new workflow, branches and tags become **revisions** and **versions**, underscoring that the information associated with them is not stored within a Git repository anymore. The concept of commit is not present anymore and the commit history is replaced by a **version history**: the user can create versions, similar to Git tags, to keep track of the project’s evolution.

Reviewer: I would consider mentioning the ad-hoc sections to handle revisions and versions too

> With the new workflow, branches and tags become **revisions** and **versions**, underscoring that the information associated with them is not stored within a Git repository anymore. The concept of commit is not present anymore and the commit history is replaced by a **version history**: the user can create versions, similar to Git tags, to keep track of the project’s evolution.

Author: I added this part, maybe we should add a screenshot as well

### New deployment workflow
Another significant change is the way Console configurations are saved and deployed: Kubernetes **configurations will be generated and committed** to the Git repository only **during the deployment process**. 

> Before deploying the configurations to the cluster, users can **review** which workload changes are going to be deployed by opening the review modal. This operation gives the developer a clear view of what is going to be released on the runtime environment, and it is mandatory if the user is deploying on a production environment. 

Reviewer 2: we should remove/rewrite this paragraph with what we are going to release with the first milestone; we don't have the review flow yet, we could write this in a "roadmap" sub-section maybe?

> Before deploying the configurations to the cluster, users can **review** which workload changes are going to be deployed by opening the review modal. This operation gives the developer a clear view of what is going to be released on the runtime environment, and it is mandatory if the user is deploying on a production environment. 

Reviewer: Yeah, I would consider to share in an ad-hoc paragraph a short-medium term about how we intend to evolve it

Moreover, in the new workflow the user will be able to **export Kubernetes configurations** by clicking on a download button.
:::note  
The review and export features are still in development and will be available in future releases.
:::

:::caution

> When deploying your configurations to the cluster, keep in mind that only the changes pushed to the repository’s default branch will be considered.

Reviewer 2: Do we want to specify this?

```suggestion
When deploying your configurations to the cluster, keep in mind that only the changes pushed to the repository’s default branch will be considered.

You can change the repository branch using by changing the `project.repository.configurationBranch` property 
```

Reviewer: Is this a property manageable in some way at back-office level? Or in some other way?

Reviewer 2: As of now you have to change it from the backoffice, we can consider moving it into project settings in the repository tab

:::

The new deployment workflow also unlocks the possibility to adopt a **pull-based deployment strategy**, in which a GitOps tool is set up to automatically align the cluster’s state to the latest changes pushed to the Git repository. To find out more about pull-based deployment and its advantages, visit the [GitOps deployment strategy documentation page](/development_suite/deploy/gitops-based/index.md).

## Activating the feature

> The GitOps support feature can be activated in different ways, depending on your needs. In order to access the feature, please request the support of a Mia-Platform referent.

Reviewer 2: This is the activation for the new workflow more than the activation for GitOps support 🤔

> You can activate the `ENABLE_CONF_GENERATION_ON_DEPLOY` feature toggle on a new project or Company to enable the enhanced project workflow. The feature toggle activates the new versioning system and the generation of Kubernetes configurations at the time of deployment. You can enable it for a single project or for an entire Company, which means all projects in the Company will adopt the new workflow.

Reviewer: You, or your Mia-Platform referent? In this paragraph to specify better, we can also include from where

Reviewer 2: as of now, definitely a Mia-Platform referent; I'd highlight this in a specific banner

If you already have a Company with some projects, and you do not wish to migrate them to the new approach just yet, you can activate the `ENABLE_CREATE_PROJECT_WITH_SAVE_CONFIG_ON_DEPLOY` feature toggle on the Company. This feature toggle makes sure that all new projects in the Company will be created with the new workflow, while leaving the existing ones untouched. 

:::note
If both feature toggles are enabled, `ENABLE_CONF_GENERATION_ON_DEPLOY` will prevail.
:::

> :::info

Reviewer: Here it seems that to activate it you can do it in project creation. It will be, but not yet. This sentence may not be understood correctly

Author: Should I remove the info box?

In order to set up a new project, follow the [project creation guide](/development_suite/set-up-infrastructure/create-project.mdx). To create a new Company or to activate feature toggles, please open a Service Request.
:::

## Manual adjustments on newly created projects

> After creating a new project and activating the feature toggles, there are some important manual adjustments necessary to make sure the project works correctly.

Author: It depends, if you activate the first FT on the project it necessarily means you have activated it after the project creation, because otherwise on which project would it be enabled? 
If you use the first FT on the Company, all your new and past projects will use it. If you use the second FT, instead, it will be active before the new projects are created, since it refers to the Company in which they will be created.

This sentence is meant to generically recap the previous paragraphs. I don't think it matters much how you managed to activate the workflow on the project. However it can be adjusted, maybe this way it sounds better: 

```suggestion
After enabling the new workflow on one of your freshly created projects, some essential manual adjustments are necessary to make sure the project works correctly.
```

First of all, the project model **must have set a default revision**: ask your Mia-Platform referent to check it, and in case it is missing, to add it manually. You can choose a custom name for your default revision, e.g. `main`.

> If you want the project to use a **pull-based deployment strategy**,<!-- TODO: (LINK) --> its configuration must contain the `strategy` property set to `pull` (the value for push-based deployments is `push`). Based on the selected strategy, the `runnerTool` may take different values. 

Reviewer: Where this 'strategy' property is findable? I think we have to clarify better this paragraph

Reviewer 2: the strategy is to be set from CMS (as of now but it will land in the project settings so let's add this to the roadmap paragraph).

the strategy can be found in `project.deploy.strategy` for the global configuration that is inherited by all environments; if you want an "environment specific settings" you can patch the `project.environments[_].deploy.strategy` (NB: this won't land in the project settings for now)

<!-- TODO: more details? -->

> Next, the project **Git repository structure** should contain:

Reviewer: It is important to clarify differences between the 'default' git repo structure "before" (with old projects) and "after" (with new project workflow) -> to highlight what changes; and comparing projects that adopts kustomize, or without it

- A `configuration` directory, with all your global customizations to be applied to all environments, and a `kustomization.yaml` manifest if you are using Kustomize.

> - An `overlays` directory, containing one directory for each environment, inside which all your environment-specific patch files are stored.

Reviewer 2: here there must be a kustomization file (if using kustomize) as well

- An `environments` directory, automatically generated by the Console, containing one directory for each environment, inside which all the necessary configurations are generated and stored after each push.

There are some **points of attention** and possible modifications needed to make sure everything works properly on the Git repository:

> - If there are any configuration files in the repository root (e.g. `api-console-config.json`), you can delete them, since they refer to the old management strategy of configuration files.

Reviewer: This is about "migrating" an existent project; I think we have to distinguish the repo structure of newly created projects with already enabled the config generation at deploy time, from the ones that have been migrated

<!-- TODO: add complete list of files -->
- The `gitlab-ci.yml` file contains a deploy script, which assumes the repository’s directory structure based on outdated information. The path of the deploy job file needs to be updated with the path of the correct script <!-- (TBD) -->

> - The new `environments` directory is automatically created by the Console. Inside it, the generated configurations for each environment are stored in separate directories. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The new `environments` directory is automatically created by the Console. Inside it, the generated configurations for each environment are stored in separate directories.

```

:::warning
It is important to note that these are auto-generated directories, so all their contents are regenerated each time a push operation is performed. If you add custom files to the environments directory or its child directories, they will be deleted. 
:::

- If you are **deploying without Kustomize**, you will find a `configuration` directory containing one directory for each environment, and possibly some custom files.
You need to create the overlays directory, where you have to move environment directories previously stored inside `configuration`. No actions are required for the custom files in the `configuration` directory. 

> Note: In case a custom file with the same name is present inside both the `configuration` directory and an environment directory, the global custom file will prevail.

Author: the duplicate file generates an error on deploy
Let's remove the sentence

## Migrating existing projects

In order to adopt the enhanced workflow on existing projects, a migration process is required.

<!-- here we are talking about moving files to a database. Is it ok? -->
All branches and tags need to be migrated to a database in the form of revisions and versions. For each revision and version, the Console configuration files must be moved to specific documents on the database, each one associated with its `configType` property. These files are: 

- `api-console-config.json` (merged with all ConfigMaps content) - `configType: base`
- `fast-data-config.json` - `configType: fast-data`
- `rbacManagerConfig.json` - `configType: rbacManagerConfig`
- `backofficeConfiguration.json` - `configType: backofficeConfigurations`
- `mia-craft-config.json` - `configType: ` <!-- TBD -->
- All config extension files - `configType: extensions`

The project data model has to be updated by ensuring that the `defaultBranch` property corresponds to the repository’s default branch, or to a fallback value.

Moreover, the Git repository structure has to be re-shaped to complete the migration process.

> The final repository structure will be the following: 

Reviewer: This info could be placed also to "## Manual adjustments on newly created projects" paragraph to explain better how the git repo is strctured after the creation of a 'new' proejct

---
id: enhanced-project-workflow
title: Enhanced Project Workflow
sidebar_label: Enhanced Project Workflow
---

:::caution
This is a **BETA** feature and, as such, is currently under active development. Pay attention using it.
:::

The **Enhanced Project Workflow** feature aims to improve the developer experience when working with the Console, as well as pave the way for the adoption of previously unavailable opportunities.

## Changes to the Console workflow

The following sections will highlight the changes made to the established Console workflow, regarding in particular the new management of the project logical state, and the new deployment workflow.

### New configuration management strategy

> The most relevant change in the Console’s behavior is that the project’s logical state will not be saved on a Git provider anymore. This will result in significant **performance improvement** during the main Console workflows, since contacting the Git provider implied a considerable overhead that will now be reduced.

Reviewer 2: We have numbers from our testing environment but since the numbers for production are only theoretical we don't have something to be put here.

While I agree that statements like this should be based on numbers, in this case the architectural change itself is enough to prove the improvement is there waiting for user to migrate their projects on the new workflow

This change also means that the Console will not rely on the typical Git-based instruments anymore and will instead adopt a **new configuration management system**, while still maintaining consistency with the Console’s established workflows.

> With the new workflow, branches and tags become **revisions** and **versions**, underscoring that the information associated with them is not stored within a Git repository anymore. The concept of commit is not present anymore and the commit history is replaced by a **version history**: the user can create versions, similar to Git tags, to keep track of the project’s evolution.

Reviewer 3: Proposal to make it a little more concise and clear. Avoiding to literal translation of italian terms like `underscoring` that sounds odd

```suggestion
To emphasize that the new workflow configuration is no longer stored in a Git repository:
- `branches` and `tags` are now **`revisions`** and **`versions`**
- `commit history` is now **`version history`**

To keep track of the project’s evolution, user can create `versions` (similar to Git tags) that act as fixed snapshots of the configuration in a particular moment.
```

If you already have a Company with some projects, and you do not wish to migrate them to the new approach just yet, you can choose the `ENABLE_CREATE_PROJECT_WITH_SAVE_CONFIG_ON_DEPLOY` feature toggle, to be activated on the Company. This feature toggle makes sure that all new projects in the Company will be created with the new workflow, while leaving the existing ones untouched. 

:::note
If both feature toggles are enabled, `ENABLE_CONF_GENERATION_ON_DEPLOY` will prevail.
:::

:::info
In order to set up a new project, follow the [project creation guide](/console/project-configuration/create-a-project.mdx).
:::

## Manual adjustments on newly created projects

After enabling the new workflow on one of your freshly created projects, some essential manual adjustments are necessary to make sure the project works correctly.

> First of all, the project model **must have set a default revision**: ask your Mia-Platform referent to check it, and in case it is missing, to add it manually. You can choose a custom name for your default revision, e.g. `main`.

Author: ```suggestion
First of all, the Project Settings **must have set a default revision**: ask your Mia-Platform referent to check it, and in case it is missing, to add it manually. You can choose a custom name for your default revision, e.g. `main`.
```
add link to project settings section

If you already have a Company with some projects, and you do not wish to migrate them to the new approach just yet, you can choose the `ENABLE_CREATE_PROJECT_WITH_SAVE_CONFIG_ON_DEPLOY` feature toggle, to be activated on the Company. This feature toggle makes sure that all new projects in the Company will be created with the new workflow, while leaving the existing ones untouched. 

:::note
If both feature toggles are enabled, `ENABLE_CONF_GENERATION_ON_DEPLOY` will prevail.
:::

## Migrating your projects

Some essential manual adjustments are necessary to make sure your newly created and already existing projects work correctly with the Enhanced Project Workflow.

### General adjustments

The migration process for an existing Project is currently completely manual and impacts several entities, the process can be summarized with the following steps:

 - Git repository structure clean-up
 - Feature activation
 - Setup default revision and few Project Settings

#### Git repository structure clean-up

> With the new Workflow we have decided to change and unify the Git repository structure; prior to this change we are supporting two different folder structures based on whether the Project is using [`kustomize`](/console/project-configuration/kustomize-your-configurations/migrate-to-kustomize.md); now we are supporting a single folder structure that contains:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
With the new Workflow we have decided to change and unify the Git repository structure; prior to this change we were supporting two different folder structures based on whether the Project is using [`kustomize`](/console/project-configuration/kustomize-your-configurations/migrate-to-kustomize.md); now we are supporting a single folder structure that contains:
```

> - an `environments` directory, automatically generated by the Console, containing one directory for each environment, inside which all the necessary configurations are generated and stored after each push;

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- an `environments` directory, automatically generated by the Console, containing one directory for each environment, inside which all the necessary configurations are generated and stored after each deploy;
```

- a `configuration` directory, with all your global customizations to be applied to all environments, and a `kustomization.yaml` manifest if you are using [`Kustomize`](/console/project-configuration/kustomize-your-configurations/manage-a-kustomize-project);
- an `overlays` directory, containing one directory for each environment, inside which all your environment-specific patch files are stored, as well as a `kustomization.yaml` manifest if you are using [`Kustomize`](/console/project-configuration/kustomize-your-configurations/manage-a-kustomize-project).

The final repository structure should be similar to the following: 

```
├── overlays
│ ├── dev
│ │ └─── <dev custom file>
│ ├── production
│ │ └─── <prod custom file>
│ ├── other_env_id
│ │ └─── <env_id custom file>
│ └── ....
│
├── configuration
│ └─── <global custom files>
│
├── environments
│ ├── dev
│ │ └── <k8s config files>
│ ├── production
│ │ └── <k8s config files>
│ ├── other_env_id
│ │ └── <k8s config files>
│ └ .....
```

:::info
All the contents of the `environments` directory are generated from scratch each time, any additional file that is not managed by the Console will be overwritten!
:::

:::caution

> If you are already working on a Project based on Kustomize, make sure that the `overlays/:env/kustomization.yml` file imports the proper resource within the `environments/:env/kustomization.yml` instead of the `configuration/kustomization.yml`. The Console, when generating the `environments/:env/kustomization.yml` will automatically import the `configuration/kustomization.yml` if present.

Reviewer 3: Why not:

```suggestion
If you are working on a Project with Kustomize, ensure that the `overlays/:env/kustomization.yml` file imports the proper resource. 
To do this, replace the path `../../configuration` with `../../environments/<environment-id>` within the `environments/:env/kustomization.yml` instead of the `configuration/kustomization.yml`.
When generating the `environments/:env/kustomization.yml`, the Console will automatically import the `configuration/kustomization.yml` if present.
```

As such the final look of the `kustomization.yaml` within the overlays directory should look like the following example:

```yaml
apiVersion: kustomize.config.k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: Kustomization
resources:

> - ../../environments/development

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- ../../environments/dev
```

```
:::

#### Feature Activation

Follow up what's explained in the [Activating the feature](#activating-the-feature) section, if you are activating the feature on a single Project proceed with enabling the `ENABLE_CONF_GENERATION_ON_DEPLOY` feature toggle on the specific Project rather than on the whole Company.

#### Projet Settings configuration

When you activate the Feature some new [Project Settings](/console/project-configuration/project-settings.md) will be available, specifically you will have to make sure the that the **default revision field** is not empty; if so you can select the revision you want to use; if you are migrating an existing Project that used to have several branches, you will see here the branches you used to work on and select the desired branch as default revision.

:::info

> If no default revision is set the Console will suggest you to work with a default revision named `main`, you can find it in the Project Settings and safely use it as default if you don't have anything else to select.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If no default revision is specified, the Console will use `main` as the default revision.
This revision will be an empty configuration if no other `main` branch was previously created on the Project.
```

:::

> If you want the Project to use a [**pull-based deployment strategy**](/development_suite/deploy/gitops-based/index.md#advantages-of-pull-based-deployment), its configuration must contain the `strategy` property set to `pull` (the value for push-based deployments is `push`). Based on the selected strategy, the `runnerTool` may take different values. 

Reviewer 3: Let's move this to another section as this is not part of Project migration 
```suggestion
```

Reviewer 2: agree

> :::note
> For now, the deployment strategy can only be set from the backoffice. Please ask the support of your Mia-Platform referent to change it.
> :::
> 

Reviewer 3: Same here, not part of Project migration
```suggestion
```

Reviewer 2: agree

This change also means that the Console will not rely on the typical Git-based instruments anymore and will instead adopt a **new configuration management system**, while still maintaining consistency with the established workflows; to emphasize this, the following features have been renamed:
- `branches` and `tags` become **`revisions`** and **`versions`**
- the `commit history` becomes **`version history`**

To keep track of the Project evolution, user can create `versions` (similar to Git tags) that act as fixed snapshots of the configuration in a particular moment.

Developers can manage *revisions* and *versions* from the dedicated sections inside the Project Settings area. Revisions can be accessed and deleted from the revisions management page:

![Revisions management page](img/revisions-overview.png)

Versions with their description and release note can be viewed and deleted through the versions management page:

:::info

> Versions can only be deleted from Project Administrators

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Versions can only be deleted by Project Administrators.
```

### Kubernetes configuration export

Users will be able to **export Kubernetes configurations** with a simple click of a button.

### Improvements to Project Settings

As of today, some **Project customizations** can be performed only through the backoffice:

- The repository default branch can be changed by updating the `repository.configurationBranch` property.
- The Project deploy strategy (useful to configure whether your Project is supposed to use a [Pipeline-based](/development_suite/deploy/pipeline-based/index.md) or [GitOps-based](/development_suite/deploy/gitops-based/index.md) deployment approach) can be found in the `deploy.strategy` field for the global configuration that is inherited by all environments; to add environment specific settings you can patch the `environments[_].deploy.strategy`.

In the future, these properties will be managed in the Console, inside the [Project Settings](/console/project-configuration/project-settings.md) page.

> ### Compare Kubernetes configuration with those running in the cluster

Author: ```suggestion
### Compare Kubernetes configurations with those running in the cluster
```

With this feature Users will be able to not only review the configurations but also compare the differences with what is currently running in the cluster and understand the impacts the deploy will have before performing it.

### Migration support with automatic tools

> With the first release of this new Workflow existing Project will require some migration operation to be performed, with this improvement we ought to provide further assistance in the migration process to make it as easy and smooth as possible.

Author: ```suggestion
With the first release of this new Workflow, existing Projects will require a migration operation to be performed. With this improvement we ought to provide further assistance in the migration process to make it as easy and smooth as possible.
```

The `ENABLE_CONF_GENERATION_ON_DEPLOY` feature toggle activates the new versioning system and the generation of Kubernetes configurations at the time of deployment. It can be enabled for a single Project or for an entire Company, which means all projects in the Company, old and new ones, will adopt the new workflow.

If you already have a Company with some projects, and you do not wish to migrate them to the new approach just yet, you can choose the `ENABLE_CREATE_PROJECT_WITH_SAVE_CONFIG_ON_DEPLOY` feature toggle, to be activated on the Company. This feature toggle makes sure that all new projects in the Company will be created with the new workflow, while leaving the existing ones untouched. 

:::note
If both feature toggles are enabled, `ENABLE_CONF_GENERATION_ON_DEPLOY` will prevail.
:::

## Migrating your projects

Some essential manual adjustments are necessary to make sure your newly created and already existing projects work correctly with the Enhanced Project Workflow.

### General adjustments

> The migration process for an existing Project is currently completely manual and impacts several entities, the process can be summarized with the following steps:

Author: ```suggestion
The migration process for an existing Project is currently completely manual and impacts several entities. The process can be summarized with the following steps:
```

 - Git repository structure clean-up
 - Feature activation

>  - Setup default revision and few Project Settings

Author: ```suggestion
 - Default revision setup and adjustment of a few Project Settings
```

│ ├── other_env_id
│ │ └─── <env_id custom file>
│ └── ....
│
├── configuration
│ └─── <global custom files>
│
├── environments
│ ├── dev
│ │ └── <k8s config files>
│ ├── production
│ │ └── <k8s config files>
│ ├── other_env_id
│ │ └── <k8s config files>
│ └ .....
```

:::info
All the contents of the `environments` directory are generated from scratch each time, any additional file that is not managed by the Console will be overwritten!
:::

:::caution
If you are working on a Project with Kustomize, ensure that the `overlays/:env/kustomization.yml` file imports the proper resource. 
To do this, replace the path `../../configuration` with `../../environments/<environment-id>` within the `environments/:env/kustomization.yml` instead of the `configuration/kustomization.yml`.
When generating the `environments/:env/kustomization.yml`, the Console will automatically import the `configuration/kustomization.yml` if present.

As such the final look of the `kustomization.yaml` within the overlays directory should look like the following example:

```yaml
apiVersion: kustomize.config.k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: Kustomization
resources:
- ../../environments/dev
```
:::

#### Feature Activation

> Follow up what's explained in the [Activating the feature](#activating-the-feature) section, if you are activating the feature on a single Project proceed with enabling the `ENABLE_CONF_GENERATION_ON_DEPLOY` feature toggle on the specific Project rather than on the whole Company.

Author: ```suggestion
To activate the feature, follow the instructions in the [dedicated section](#activating-the-feature). If you wish to activate the feature on a single Project, proceed with enabling the `ENABLE_CONF_GENERATION_ON_DEPLOY` feature toggle on the specific Project rather than on the whole Company.
```

#### Projet Settings configuration

After activating the Feature, ensure to configure the new **default revision** field from the [Project Settings](/console/project-configuration/project-settings.md) selecting one of the already existing branches (namely Revisions).

:::info
If no default revision is specified, the Console will use `main` as the default revision.
This revision will be an empty configuration if no other `main` branch was previously created on the Project.
:::

If you want the Project to use a [**pull-based deployment strategy**](/development_suite/deploy/gitops-based/index.md#advantages-of-pull-based-deployment), its configuration must contain the `strategy` property set to `pull` (the value for push-based deployments is `push`). Based on the selected strategy, the `runnerTool` may take different values. 

:::note
For now, the deployment strategy can only be set from the backoffice. Please ask the support of your Mia-Platform referent to change it.
:::

### Further adjustments

Here are some **points of attention** and possible modifications needed to make sure everything works properly on the Git repository:

> - All the Console configuration state files that were previously saved on Git can be safely removed, this comprehends the following list of files and directories:

Author: ```suggestion
- All the Console configuration state files that were previously saved on Git can be safely removed. Here is a list of the files and directories which can be deleted:
```

  - `api-console-config.json`
  - `fastdata-config.json`
  - `mia-craft-config.json`
  - `rbacManagerConfig.json`
  - `backofficeConfigurations.json`
  - `config-maps`
  - `config-extension`
  - `variables`
  - `overlays/:env/variables.env`

> - If you have a pipeline file (e.g. `gitlab-ci.yml`) it may contain deployment scripts that may work based  the repository directory structure based on the previous directory structure. For this reason custom pipelines have to be updated according to the new directory structure; if your Project is using a pipeline provided by Mia-Platform templates a new template can be used, ask your Mia-Platform referent to know which one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If you have a pipeline file (e.g. `gitlab-ci.yml`) it may contain deployment scripts that may work based on the previous repository directory structure. For this reason custom pipelines have to be updated according to the new directory structure; if your Project is using a pipeline provided by Mia-Platform templates a new template can be used, ask your Mia-Platform referent to know which one.
```

> - If you have a pipeline file (e.g. `gitlab-ci.yml`) it may contain deployment scripts that may work based  the repository directory structure based on the previous directory structure. For this reason custom pipelines have to be updated according to the new directory structure; if your Project is using a pipeline provided by Mia-Platform templates a new template can be used, ask your Mia-Platform referent to know which one.

Author: ```suggestion
- If you have a pipeline file (e.g. `gitlab-ci.yml`) it may contain deployment scripts that may work based on the previous directory structure. For this reason, custom pipelines have to be updated according to the new directory structure; if your Project is using a pipeline provided by Mia-Platform templates, a new template can be used: please ask your Mia-Platform referent to know which one.
```

- If you are **deploying without Kustomize**, you may find, within the `configuration` directory, a set of directories, one for each environment of your Project. You need to create the `overlays` directory, where you have to move environment directories previously stored inside `configuration`. No actions are required for the custom files in the `configuration` directory.
- If you are **using Kustomize**, the `configuration` directory contains a `kustomization.yaml` manifest and possibly your custom files, which are already in the right spot. You can delete every other file inside the directory.

    Also, make sure that: 

>     - Inside each `overlays/<environment>` directory, the `kustomization.yaml` manifest imports the corresponding manifest from the `environments/<environment>` directory, if you don't have the `environments` directory yet don't worry, it'll be created at your first deployment!

Author: ```suggestion
    - Inside each `overlays/<environment>` directory, the `kustomization.yaml` manifest imports the corresponding manifest from the `environments/<environment>` directory. If you cannot find the `environments` directory yet, don't worry: it will be created at your first deployment!
```
